In this lesson, we will look at how to damage our character.
UE has a special set of functions with which you can carry out damage to actors.
We will start with you with a function called TakeDamage.
Let's test this function and call it on Tick. Our character will do damage to himself.
Let's see what arguments this function has. The first is a quantitative
measure of how much damage we want to convey. Let's put some small value - 0.1
The next parameter is of type DamageEvent. Let's pass an object with a default constructor.
DamageEvent has a default constructor. Click on f12. We get inside
the EngineTypes file, where DamageEvent is declared. This structure is responsible for additional
information that can be passed from damage. It has a special property called DamageType.
With the help of DamageType, we can determine what type of damage was done to the character.
It can be an explosion, fire, lava. Depending on this information, the character
can emit appropriate sound effects or a special animation can be played.
For example, a character burning animation. It all depends on the imagination and on the design of your games.
We can naturally inherit from this DamageEvent and create our own.
There are two more specific DamageEvent in the UE. The first one is PointDamageEvent.
With the help of this event, we can describe the point damage to the character: be it a bullet
or a cutting weapon. That is, we can transmit information about which part of the body
this damage was inflicted , which direction was, and depending on these parameters, we can, for example, physically
correctly play the animation of the character's skeleton. And the second type of event is called RadialDamageEvent.
This event describes the damage that can come from, for example, a grenade explosion.
In this event, we can pass the parameters of the sphere, that is, its position in space, radius
and how the final damage to the character is calculated. If the mechanics in your game are trivial, then you
may not need DamageEvent at all. Just a quantitative characteristic is enough - how much we
want to take away the character's life. It's okay too. The next parameter is a pointer to the
character's controller , or pawn, which is causing the damage. Later we will see that passing this parameter is
also important, because using the pointer to the controller, we can determine whether the
player is in the opposite team, or in our team, that is, we can get information
about the character who caused us damage. We are now passing in our own controller, which is
in the Controller variable. And the last parameter is a pointer to the actor who is responsible for the damage.
It can be a grenade, a bullet, a knife, and so on. In our particular case,
we are doing damage to ourselves, so we pass the this pointer to the current object. Next, we
need to figure out how to get information that damage has been done to the current actor.
Let's move on to the TakeDamage function. Press F12, we get into the TakeDamage function of the APawn class.
We are not particularly interested in what is happening here. Let's dip a little below the TakeDamage function of the AActor class.
We don't need to understand the code that is in this function. It is enough for us to consider a
couple of key points that occur in this function. Depending on the event that comes to TakeDamage
, a check is made to see if the given event is a PointDamageEvent.
After that, the OnTakePointDamage delegate is called, which we can subscribe to. In our particular
case, we just call the function with DamageEvent, so we don't get the code in this branch.
Next, it is checked if the given event is a RadialDamageEvent.
And if so, then the OnTakeRadialDamage delegate is called. We can subscribe to it and receive the corresponding
callback when this event occurs. In our particular case, we also do not fall into this branch.
And finally, at the very end of the function, the OnTakeAnyDamage delegate is called.
This event is called in any scenario, that is, for any type of event, and we will subscribe
to this delegate . Press f12 on OnTakeAnyDamage. We see that 3 events are declared in the
actor's header file . Plus they are uproperty. We can subscribe to them in blueprint as well.
Let's take a look at the signature of this delegate. We drive in the search FOnTakeAnyDamageSignature.
We will have to copy the entire signature. It's big enough. We select. We copy.
Let's go to the main class of our character. Into the header file.
At the very bottom, in the private section, create a function.
Do not forget to mark this function with the UFUNCTION macro. Let's call the function OnTakeAnyDamageHandle.
And we insert the entire signature into this function.
We remove unnecessary commas and look at the parameters in parallel.
The first parameter is the actor that was damaged. The second parameter is a quantitative characteristic of damage.
Next comes DamageType, that is, not the entire event comes to the callback, but only the damage type.
Next comes the controller who is responsible for the damage and the actor who caused the damage.
We create the body of the OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function.
Let's subscribe to the OnTakeAnyDamage delegate. Let's subscribe to the BeginPlay function.
We call the AddDynamic function. We pass the first parameter - a pointer
to the current instance, that is, this and the second parameter - our OnTakeAnyDamage function.
Let's check that this circuit works. To do this, log the damage value in the OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function.
Create a local logging category in the character class.
DEFINE_LOG_CATEGORY_STATIC. Let's call it BaseCharacterLog.
We return to the OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function. We write UE_LOG, the name of the logging category.
Display, macro TEXT and we will display the number damage.
damage:% f and pass the variable that comes in the parameter.
Thus, in the Tick function, that is, every frame
we do ourselves a little damage. This is a bit absurd, but for testing it is what you need.
And every time damage is done to the character, the OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function is called.
Open the log, clear and run the game. The value damage = 0.1 is displayed
in the log for each frame.
That is, everything works correctly.
Move on. We have not just created a health component for nothing. We can
transfer this function to the health component and subscribe to OnTakeAnyDamage inside the health component.
Thus, all the logic for handling the health of our character will be
in one place - in our component. Remove the OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function from the character class.
We transfer it to the health component. Replace the class and let's delete the log for now.
Let's do the same in the .h files. We remove the function declaration.
We transfer it to the health component.
Go to the health component .cpp file. Let's subscribe to OnTakeAnyDamage on BeginPlay.
We remember that each component has a GetOwner function that returns a pointer to the owner of
this component. Therefore, we create a ComponentOwner pointer and assign the return
value of the GetOwner function to it. If the given pointer is not null, then there is an owner of this component.
Then we can subscribe to the delegate of this actor.
So we have an incomplete type again. Let's include the actor header file.
Now let's do the same as we did in the BaseCharacter class.
Add our OnTakeAnyDamageHandle function to the delegate.
Let's rename this function to simply OnTakeAnyDamage for beauty, and also do it in the .h file.
Let's do this. Our health variable will be
reduced by this damage. Again, this is not the final code, we are just
testing how this API works to handle damage for actors. Launch editor.
Compilation error.
Forgot to remove the line with the delegate in the ABaseCharacter class. Let's compile one more time.
We start the game. The life character ran down.
We have not processed anything yet: the character died or not, so after a few frames the value of
our character's life will be negative. We will gradually improve all this with you.